Update process (#9)
meilisearch/specifications: README.md

# Specifications

This repository provides a template for creating **feature specifications** for MeiliSearch. A feature specification is a written description of a feature that serves as a basis for development, design, and inter-team synchronization. 

A **Merged specification** represents a MeiliSearch feature that is implemented or ready to be.

---

## Specification Workflow

When a new feature or product is to be developed, a new pull request is created, and contributors are invited to discuss its content and propose suggestions. The goal of a feature specification is to define the expected behavior on a high level and point out corner cases that need to be addressed.

The person in charge of the PR (the owner) is the person assigned to the PR. This allows for changing ownership. When the PR assignee changes, both new and old assignees should be notified.

MeiliSearch's feature specifications flow is made up of 5 states, described below.

### Introduction State

To start a new specification, it is recommended to write the first draft by filling in only the `Summary` and `Motivation` parts. 

> The name of the spec must follow the pattern: `PR_number-feature-name.md`. For example, if PR number 12 is about facetting, its spec will be named `0012-facetting.md` or `0012-facetted-search.md`. It will be logical that the names of the PRs will not follow each other. This is not a problem. The fact that the name has the number of PR simplifies the fact that there is no synchronization to choose this number.

Reviewer: I'm actually setting it like that. I use xxxx-[name-of-spec].md at file creation. When the PR is created, I rename the file with the corresponding created PR identifier. I should remove this part and write that the spec number in the filename should be the pull request id.

When a new feature or product is to be developed, a new pull request is created, and contributors are invited to discuss its content and propose suggestions. The goal of a feature specification is to define the expected behavior on a high level and point out corner cases that need to be addressed.

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. When the PR assignee changes, both new and old assignees should be notified.

Author: I'm not sure you understand. The person in charge of the PR = The owner in the rest of the text.

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. When the PR assignee changes, both new and old assignees should be notified.

Reviewer 2: Yep, I thought my suggestion would have made it clearer. If it's not, feel free to discard it ^^

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. When the PR assignee changes, both new and old assignees should be notified.

Author: Could you just edit and let `(the owner)` instead of `(pull-request)`? I will accept the rest.

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. To change the person assigned to the PR, this should be seen with at least the lest and the new assignee.

Reviewer 3: What is `RP`? Is it a typo of `PR` or is it a real acronym? (I ask because the `RP` word is used twice)

Author: It's a Grammarly issue I think sorry :/

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. To change the person assigned to the PR, this should be seen with at least the lest and the new assignee.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. When the PR assignee changes, both new and old assignees should be notified.
```

The end of the sentence was confused to me. Was it the idea you wanted to write?

> The person in charge of the RP (the owner) is the person assigned to the RP. This allows for the possibility of changing it over time. To change the person assigned to the PR, this should be seen with at least the lest and the new assignee.

Reviewer 4: Outdated comment I forgot existed

#### Start

To start a new specification, it is recommended to write the first draft by filling in only the `Summary` and `Motivation` parts. 

> The name of the spec must follow the pattern: `PR_number-feature-name.md`. For example, if PR number 12 is about facetting, its spec will be named `0012-facetting.md` or `0012-facetted-search.md`. It will be logical that the names of the PRs will not follow each other. This is not a problem. The fact that the name has the number of PR simplifies the fact that there is no synchronization to choose this number. 

Reviewer 5: There will honestly never be a need for synchronization, PR are merged one after the other, and people talk with each other when doing so. It's cleaner if the numbers simply follow each other.

Author: I just took the idea from [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs). Are you sure about the usability? What if we would like to merge 2 specs in the same time?

#### Draft PR

> Once the file is created with the two parts, `Summary` and `Motivation` filled in. It is time to create a draft PR. The PR should remain in draft until the content is, according to the author, ready for comments. However, outsiders can make some recommendations, but these are more in the spirit of helping rather than suggesting changes. 

Reviewer 5: Generally, I would say that a spec starts with a functional specification. When starting a spec, there should have been discussion ahead of time, and we should already have a rough idea of what we want to do, this is for example how we processed for https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/3.

When the functional specification has been agreed upon, the spec changes owner to someone in the core team who's in charge of writing the technical specification.

Author: I really think that the first thing that must be filled is the motivation part. Without this part, you don't know in which direction to take the PR. And the summary explains in 1 sentence the goal of the issue, so I think it's also right to have it before talking about the functional spec.

Reviewer 5: this should be part of a pre-rfc meeting don't you think? We must not use this repo as an idea box imo. Ideally, ideas that land here should be mature enough, no?

Author: I think that It will be the role of the PM/me (now) to select which PR must be created. Create a PR could be limited to only some people? I am agree with you on the point that this repo should not be an idea inbox.

#### Open PR

> Once the specification is finished in the owner's eyes, he can then switch the PR to open. At that time, it can be commented on, modified, and challenged by these peers. If there is the slightest friction during this process, a discussion will be recommended offline within MeiliSearch. The PR owner will organize this discussion, and at the end of this interview, the owner will clearly describe the report of the meeting in the PR and make any necessary changes.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by `Once the specification is finished`? Because in the previous step you ask to fill the `Summary` and `Motivation` parts, but you don't mention the other parts. Should they be all completed when we pass the PR from `draft` to `open`? Can we remove the `draft` status if many sections are empty?

Reviewer 3: Still have the same concerned 😅 -> not sure to understand `Once the specification is finished in the owner's eyes` means

#### VI. Impact on SDKs

If the feature requires additions or updates to the SDks, they should be noted here. It's the role of the integration team to ensure this section of the feature specification is accurate.

### 2. Technical Specifications

This section of the feature specification document has a much narrower audience: the developer(s) that will implement the feature. Its goal is to discuss and clarify how the feature will be developed and implemented. It has four subsections.

Architecture and Implementation Details parts should be considered as critical when the specification is owned by someone outside MeiliSearch teams. Internal technical teams may use this part to keep track of technical brainstorms, related proto code or basecode examples.

#### I. Architecture

This section presents how the new feature will fit into the existing architecture and codebase on an abstract level. It should also define a scope where the feature exists.

#### II. Implementation Details

This section is for precise, practical aspects of implementation, e.g. interfaces, potential code problems, or specific algorithmic choices.

#### III. Issues Summary

> This section is for listing any related issues that need to be done to fully implement this specification.

Reviewer 3: I think we should detail:
- the labels `Spec Releated` has to be added to the issues
- the issues have to mention the spec in the description
- the issues must absolutely link to the PRs that resolve the spec, so that we can easily track them
